- Every architecture decision that is made
ultimately comes down to compromises.
There is no single silver bullet
that solves every use case you have,
and even within a pattern
there are compromises that need to be made.
As I previously alluded to,
there are costs to pay for moving
to microservices architecture,
and I feel it is critical to discuss these some
before we dig into the pattern.
You and your organization must decide
if the benefits you gain from moving
to microservices is worth the cost you pay.
No matter how hot this pattern is,
if it isn't right for you, don't force it.
One of the biggest costs you will pay,
especially early in the process, is complexity.
In a monolithic system, you have one,
or maybe a few components to manage.
Those components may be large,
but if your processes or procedures
require a lot of gates in the software lifecycle,
microservices architectures will dramatically
cost you time and money as you move
from a few deployed artifacts to many.
In addition to the deployment complexity,
determining where all the code lives and operates
in a microservices architecture can increase
the complexity and the costs associated with it.
If your churn to production is not a simple case
of packaging and deployment,
but instead a complicated process,
walk lightly with microservices,
unless you are willing to update your process.
Now if I were the architect consulting your organization
and you were dealing with a complex set of processes
and gates around deployments,
I would investigate those steps
and determine how much can be automated
and how much can be trimmed.
I don't want to make it sound
like a complex process should limit
microservices development.
You just need to take it into account.
Another cost you pay with microservices
is the so-called distribution tax.
As you build a microservices architecture out,
there is a dramatic increase in network communications
between the individual services.
This increases the total latency of calls
across the network as a whole.
In addition to individual calls taking more time
from the client perspective,
the increase in call volume
tends to risk congestion,
causing catastrophic latency across the whole network.
A single slow call in the stack
can cause thread blocking that impacts other client calls.
Often, you will see teams move to reactive technologies
to alleviate the single threaded blocking calls.
However, the distribution tax still persists.
Another similar problem is the reduction of reliability.
This is one area where technologies
can dramatically help, but as you put more
moving parts into a system,
there is a decrease in the overall reliability
of the system as a whole.
If one microservice is sick, the impacts can
and often are extended to multiple client calls.
It becomes critical to evaluate your most core services
and determine if they can withstand system unreliability.
Again, there are ways to build your system
to be more reliable, but if you need the system
to be either up or down, and not in a partial state,
you may need to evaluate if microservices
are the right pattern for you.
Ultimately, as we progress through this course,
I will continue to point out
where these risks come into play.
Your ability to make decisions that maximize benefit
while reducing risks and complications
will help spell success for your organization.
But making blind decisions will risk failure.
Throughout the rest of this course,
as I bring up the potential pitfalls
of this architecture pattern,
my intention is not to discourage you
from moving this direction,
but instead to arm you with the knowledge needed
to make the correct compromises
that will lead you to success.